demos/twitter-race/README.md, before:

# Twitter Race

This demo shows reading from a live stream of tweets using the [twitter adapter](https://github.com/juttle/juttle-twitter-adapter).
The user inputs 2 search terms, juttle parses the incoming tweets to find matches, and displays match count as live-updating tiles and a timechart,
to visually compare popularity of the requested terms.

## Setup

We will need outrigger to render visualizations in the browser, and the twitter adapter to enable reading. 

```
npm install -g juttle
npm install -g outrigger
npm install -g juttle-twitter-adapter
```

The `~/.juttle/config.json` file should contain a configuration section with credentials to access twitter via API:

```
{
    "adapters": {
        "juttle-twitter-adapter": {
            "consumer_key": "...",
            "consumer_secret": "...",
            "access_token_key": "...",
            "access_token_secret": "..."
        }
    }
}
```

To obtain these credentials, set up a [Twitter App](https://apps.twitter.com/) using your twitter username, and create an OAuth token.

With the config file in place, start outriggerd daemon:

```
outriggerd &
```

## Juttle

To execute the included Juttle program, run it with outrigger client:

```
outrigger-client browser --path twitter.juttle
```

The output will be rendered in your browser. Enter two search terms and click "Run" to see the live charts.

Commit message:

Update to run via docker.
Update the instructions to use docker and the outrigger image.

Move the juttle program to ./juttles for consistency with the other demos.

Update the instructions to use a juttle-config.json file in the current directory for consistency with other demos.

Update the instructions to visit the run url to view the program instead of using outrigger-client browser.

demos/twitter-race/README.md, after:

# Twitter Race

This example shows reading from a live stream of tweets using the [twitter adapter](https://github.com/juttle/juttle-twitter-adapter).
The user inputs 2 search terms, juttle parses the incoming tweets to find matches, and displays match count as live-updating tiles and a timechart,
to visually compare popularity of the requested terms.

We will need outrigger to render visualizations in the browser, and the twitter adapter to enable reading. The outrigger docker image provides the necessary software. We run it with specific options that map the necessary configuration and juttle programs into the container.

## Setup

### Twitter Adapter Configuration and Credentials

You should create a `juttle-config.json` file in the current directory. This should contain a configuration section with credentials to access twitter via API:

```
{
    "adapters": {
        "juttle-twitter-adapter": {
            "consumer_key": "...",
            "consumer_secret": "...",
            "access_token_key": "...",
            "access_token_secret": "..."
        }
    }
}
```

To obtain these credentials, set up a [Twitter App](https://apps.twitter.com/) using your twitter username, and create an OAuth token.

### Starting outrigger

Start outrigger via docker:

```
docker run --name outrigger -p 8080:8080 -v `pwd`/juttles:/opt/outrigger/juttles -v `pwd`/juttle-config.json:/opt/outrigger/.juttle-config.json juttle/outrigger:latest
```

## Juttle

To execute the included Juttle program, visit
``http://localhost:8080/run?path=/twitter.juttle``. If you're running
using docker-machine, replace localhost with the value of
``docker-machine ip default``.

The output will be rendered in your browser. Enter two search terms and click "Run" to see the live charts.
